# **AutonomousCarAI**
## Description

This is a deep learning model for a self-driving car. Neural network has been used to create a self driving car AI . The project consists of three phases: 

 - **Generating data**
 - **Training the data**
 - **Self Driving**
#### *Gathering data*
The data for the neural network is generated by playing the game (provided in the link) and running ***main.py*** in *training* mode, the data generated consist of game frames as *30x30x3* array with keys *w,s,a,d*, both are captured while the user plays the game.
#### *Training*
 Once the data is gathered this data is feeded to a neural network model ***model.py*** the model takes input frames as *1x2700* array and keys *1x4* array. Using the convolutional neural network, the model trains upon the data generated in previous phase.
#### *Driving*
Now run the ***main.py*** in *driving* mode. The trained model will predict and automate  key-press while game runs  in *driving mode*.

## Prerequisites

The python library used to capture frames is ***Win32api*** which is only available on windows. As an alteranative ***Pyscreenshot*** can be used in linux but it capture frames extremely slow (~ 10fps). ***Keras*** with tensorflow backend has been used to train the model. Others:  ***Numpy***, ***Pandas***, ***OpenCV*** , ***Pyautogui*** and ***Keyboard*** has been used.


## How does it works?

 1. Run ***game.exe*** in 512x384. 
 2. Once the red screen with the note "Press Space" appears run ***main.py***. Let main.py know the location of the game. So don't press space until it finds the game screen.
 3. ***main.py*** will capture the location of the game and will ask whether to train, test or quit. 
 4. Choose an option:
    - **Training**: use *w*, *a*, *s*, *d* to move the car on the road and press *q* to stop training. This will collect data and store it to `data/` folder. Once data has been collected, run ***model.py*** to create a trained model for the self-driving car in the `model/` folder. Now this model can be used for testing.
    - **Testing**: Testing here refers to driving. Once there is a trained model this option can be used. Just select the option and let the car drive itself. To stop testing, put the cursor on the opencv screen window and press *esc*.


## Game Link

The link of the car game to be trained:
https://www.dropbox.com/s/ji1ywiaj7s1kin7/Game-Updated.rar?dl=0

